So you want to be an Engineer huh? Well, follow these simple instructions and you'll turn out alright.
As an engineer, you'll be the first person people call when things explode or the power goes out. Once you master the arts of electricity, construction, and basic atmospherics, there'll be no problem you can't fix on the station! With your trusty tool belt and non-existent health insurance plan, you can make NanoTrasen proud.
If you're brand new to all of this, it's best you stick with your fellow engineers and the Chief Engineer, who can show you the ropes. Areas like the alternate construction area and Assembly Line are great places to experiment with building and repair, so make sure to utilize them when you have downtime.

Resources available
An engineer is only as good as the tools they use. Make sure to stay well equipped and well informed of what tools you have available. There's usually a tool that can help you in any situation. Some tools may only be available from Cargo, Secure Storage, or Science, so keep that in mind.

Crowbar:
Usage: Prying things in/out of place. 
Notes:
Can pry open unpowered airlocks/lift floor tiles.
Jaws of Life can pry open powered airlocks.
Can be used to remove damaged electronics.
Jaws of Life performs actions faster.

Wirecutters:
Usage: Snipping wires/grilles.
Notes:
Can snip fingertips off gloves.
Jaws of Life performs actions faster.

Welding Tool:
Usage: Welding/slicing metal..
Notes:
Can seal airlocks/vents while on harm intent
Can repair structures while on help intent.
Can repair brute damage for robotic limbs.
Experimental welder regenerates fuel.

Cable Coil:
Usage: Wiring systems together.
Notes:
Can repair burn damage for robotic limbs.
Cable Layer rapidly spools and lays cable. Has a capacity of 90 individual wire lengths.

Black Gloves:
Usage: Protecting your hands from danger.
Notes:
Prevents damage from picking up hot light bulbs and broken glass.
The Funny Yellow Gloves (Insulated Gloves) protect you from shock when working with wires and hacking.

Fixing Stuff:
When shit hits the fan and stuff starts breaking, it's up to you to fix it.
You should always prioritize the most public and damaged areas first, especially hull breaches and mass casualty incidents. If there's a lot of widespread damage, make sure to work with your department to delegate tasks out to different engineers, in order to be more efficient.

General Destruction:
An Area which may have been welderbombed
Whether it be your occasional welderbomb, or a less-than-friendly xenobiology mob, the station is bound to be damaged in some way. You'll usually hear people complain about it over comms, or find it on your patrols around the station.
The Guide to Construction will be your best friend, so go ahead and keep it open.